# News Analysis

## Introduction

Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a machine learning research area that make the computers to understand and process human language. For a human, any given text would be meaningful, but for a computer, things might get more basic or complicated while decyphering the language. NLP aims to perform text analysis as humans understand the language, therefore, it considers the hierarchical structure of language. Common examples of NLP applications will perfrom operations like text summarization, translation, named entity analysis, question anwsering, auto completion, relationship extraction, sentiment analysis, speech recognition and topic segmentation.

In this project, we are aiming to apply some of the NLP methods into news arcticles. We will spesifically focus on topic modeling and text summarization. We will apply these techniques into news dataset and try to categorize and summarize the news. We will be working with two datasets.

- The first dataset is all the [posts](https://www.kaggle.com/hacker-news/hacker-news) from Y Combinator's social news website. It covers posts from 2006 to 2017. It is accesible through BigQuery and the size of the dataset is around 13.6 GB.

- The second dataset will be the [Reuters Corpora](https://trec.nist.gov/data/reuters/reuters.html). It has three collections (RCV1, RCV2, TRC2). We will be using the first collection, RCV1, which contains 810,000 English written news. The size of the dataset is around 2.5 GB and it is available through request from NIST.

As a final product, a command line application will be created and it will produce a summary with news category tags for any given text.

## Objectives

Our objective is to gain a comprehensive understanding of topic modeling and text summarizion techniques in NLP by creating a working python application.

## Key Performance Indicators

A list of project evaluation indicators are provided in below.

- Complete documentation for every stage in NLP.

- Ability to apply and compare different machine learning techniques.

- Applying deep learning.

- Achieving above 85% accuracy on test dataset with valid model metrics.

- Dumping working models for both techniques.

- Having a project where a third person is able to install and setup the project in a timely fashion.

- Publishing the project in PyPI.

[//]: # (ListFix)

## Goals

With this project, we are aiming to get a better understanding of text datasets and the stages that is supposed to be done in order to do text analysis. Our primary focus is to learn topic modeling and text summarization.

[beforeafter]: https://3qeqpr26caki16dnhd19sv6by6v-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/Deep-Learning-For-Natural-Language-Processing-Transformation2.png